[Applause]
also quick shout-out to my grandmother
who is here with us she is 93 years old
she's still moving and grooving oh my
goodness I hope I get those jeans now
before I begin I would like to recognize
that we are on the land of the Wampanoag
nation that this is sacred earth and
that we have a responsibility to care
for it and to treat it as such
[Applause]
much to my annoyance growing up the
phrase back in my day was used by my
parents is often as infamous staples
such as because I told you so and I'll
give you something to cry about
but as I stand on this stage childish
irritation is replaced by immeasurable
gratitude you see back in my father's
day students who look like him like me
were pushed out of schools like this
before my mother even turned 16 white
families around this country rioted
against integration so these years at
Harvard has been a vindication of their
struggle and sacrifice but I have to say
this place has a peculiar way of
shifting that familial perspective now
like many of us I came here wanting to
meet my parents expectations and become
successful so I internalized what has
become a familiar routine I stressed
over problem sets
I worried about internships and jobs I
shook hands I pass resumes and soon
personal failures became unbearable soon
when I would get rejections from student
organizations I would feel worthless
next to my friends would I would get a
bad grade on a test I would worry about
my future when I would be rejected from
jobs and internships
I burned how unfair this world was I
forgot the lessons my parents had spent
so many years trying to teach me so when
I was at my lowest and I called out to
my dad for help and guidance and he
started to call off by saying back in my
day I hung up we really do live in an
unfair world of all the people who could
have come here we are the select few who
were chosen but as we worry about our
personal failures here we will earn and
achieve more than families whose only
failure was living in a broken unequal
system and we have been so conditioned
by privilege and circumstance that
exclusivity
is only a crime when we don't receive
its spoils our education here has not
prepared us to understand our advantage
position in the world or the
authenticity of others pain in economics
we learn to quantify and dehumanize
suffering we learn that poverty
inequality unemployment are unavoidable
that so long as we reach equilibrium
people who live on pennies a day are
somehow better off
in social studies and sociology we learn
to treat other suffering as an academic
exercise to ponder their pain from a
distance we critique structural
inequality and oppression but how many
of us every day for the past four years
have walked past people in the square
experiencing homelessness and acted as
though our theories and our conscience
did not apply to them now I know we will
be successful because we are ambitious
and talented and personally driven and
we will become leaders and innovators
and founders of businesses and
nonprofits but that is exactly why the
change this world so desperately needs
will not come from us that in spite of
our jargon our let's grab a meals our
votes for Hillary our votes for Jo
we will never sacrifice our position our
place in the system if we could give up
this degree to prevent someone from
experiencing homelessness or poverty or
discrimination or violence we wouldn't
and I know this because after four years
here I didn't even consider it
but last semester dining hall workers
gave us the education that we so
desperately needed for three weeks they
went without pay they were on picket
lines they marched they shared their
stories and experiences they sacrificed
everything for affordable health care
and still we were skeptical and
indifferent to their pain one student
went so far as to tell me that
unfortunately in the market we live in
workers without college degrees simply
could not be covered how quickly we have
become the political leaders we claim to
despise but dining hall workers remember
the lesson that my parents taught me
they remembered that our struggles are
intimately connected they fought not
only for affordable health care they
fought for gender and racial equity they
fought for undocumented workers they
fought for their children for workers in
other universities for workers around
the world and they won this is where you
class
now as inspired as I am by that show of
conviction I recognize that as we are
now we are not yet ready to inherit this
world it's a hard thing to say and it's
a hard thing to hear
and I am sure it would be easy to leave
here feeling guilty but without any
lasting commitment I'm sure it would be
easy to convince ourselves that this is
just the way the world works I am sure
as my parents know all too well it would
be easy for us to justify our privileges
and unequal advantages by saying that
it's better to take care of our own than
to empower individuals who society has
disowned but we have stepped on the
blood and bones of people for far too
long to forgive ourselves for doing what
is easy now we need to act beyond
ourselves and think about what is
possible for others and I know if I do
that then in the future when I hear my
children complaining about the
inconveniences
in their world I will muster the
strength to smile and I will know they
are living in a world that is one I
could only dream of because back in my
day
you